---
layout: post
title: Cold Showers, A Two-Year Retrospective
---

Last month marked two years since I first started taking cold showers. During those two years, I religiously adhered to cold showers for about a year and a half, had a couple months-long hiatus, and continued again a couple weeks ago. 

I took really warm showers for most of my life, and first heard of cold showers from reading a biography in junior high (?) of some rich guy that I can't remember the name of. It was the standard boilerplate story of the successful person who eschews all comforts in pursuit of their dreams, and cold showers were just one example of his awesome and amazing discipline. At the time, it didn't occur to me as something that I can apply to my own life; to me, it was unnecessary, extreme, and masochistic. Later on, as I started to get really into productivity and nootropics during my early years of college, I started to listen to a lot of podcasts and watch a lot of youtube videos regarding morning routines and practices that increase productivity. Perhaps it was one of those podcast episodes or videos that inspired me to try my first voluntary cold shower in March of 2018 in pursuit of becoming a cold-shower-taking, intermittent-fasting, keto-dieting, zero-inboxing productive machine.

So in the beginning, I took cold showers to kickstart my day, to keep me focused and productive. It gave me a solid energy boost that motivated me to get to work. Also by subjecting myself to this extreme discomfort in the morning, I would, theoretically at least, be less inclined to pursue easy comforts like binge watching Youtube or social media throughout the day. I'd say it was pretty helpful; at the very least, it served as a ice-cold reminder that I should be working towards my goals, and upper bounded my worst unproductive slumps to however long I could last without a shower.

As I started to settle into the routine, I also noticed that are real psychological differences before and after taking a cold shower. The shock and adrenaline from a cold shower not only completely kills any sluggishness and lethargy carried over from sleep but creates a distinct mental shift that, dare I say, *makes me feel happier*. Maybe it's the sense of achievement of taking a cold shower, or just the physiological reaction to increased adrenaline levels, but any depressive feelings I harbor before a cold shower tend to dissapear after it's all over. Each cold shower I take feels like a small rebirth, a mental reset that allows me to dive back in to the things that I am doing with renewed vigor and curiosity. This is exactly why I still came back to cold showers, even after the ambitions I had during my obsessive, productive phase lost their luster.

Most of the time, I spend a couple minutes standing outside the stream of cold water, questioning my entire life up to that point. This is especially true for days where I didn't get much sleep before, or very cold mornings where all I want is to drift off in a warm shower. On rare occasions, this is the moment when I would turn off the shower and return back to bed, or opt to just skip the shower altogether. Funnily enough, warm showers were never really an option, perhaps because I was scared that once I rediscovered the clear superiority of a warm shower, I could never rationally choose to subject myself to this pain again.

Then there's the moment when I first, in a courageous effort, step into the oncoming stream of cold. At first, I get caught up in the shock, accompanied with thoughts (sometimes verbalized and embellished with expletives) like *why did I do this*, *this was a terrible idea*. But I notice that when I focus on the feeling of the cold water on my skin, and just observe that feeling from a neutral place, I feel an odd sense of calm. I think this is why I no longer have the urge to scream when I first get in the shower, and why I no longer shiver in the water. This kind of third-person awareness of my feelings, without getting caught up in them or fighting them, helps me better process what is happening to me instead of reacting to it.

Which leads me to a second benefit of cold showers that I came to discover later on. Cold showers are a dramatic example of the power of mindfulness in alleviating the many pains of living. Too often I can get caught up in thoughts and emotions, but by observing it from a neutral place, without identifying with those feelings too strongly, I can see these thoughts and emotions for what they are and not have to act on these feelings.

But this mindfulness does require concerted effort. I think a lot of the appeal of warm showers, for me at least, is that they serve as a place of rest and comfort for my body and mind. I can take a warm shower and get lost in my head, and can stay in there for as long as I please, without giving too much attention to the thoughts and feelings themselves. Even now, a warm shower accompanied with some good music is one of the most relaxing activities I can think of.

For now, however, the positive feelings and energy boost of a cold shower are enough to keep me taking these showers consistently, over two years later. Every morning it serves as a new beginning and a good reminder to be a little more mindful throughout the day.